---
title: Grow up!
slug: grow-up
date: 2019-07-11
tags: life, personal
---

## Growing up in the context of a young child

It points to a different concept in differnt ranges of age. In case of young children (those in elementary school or earlier) it means to be polite and socially normal. Children misbehave and adults try to teach them to behave in a certain way so that they learn to be ethical in an elementary form. So that children don't take other kids' rights. This is pretty straight-forward and we are familiar with it.

## Growing up in a teenage context

Mostly, among teenagers, it means "to experience". Teens are constantly trying to drink some beer, to learn to drive a car (or a motorcycle), to get a girlfriend and be known as a more dominant and worthy being. Since they _think_ that they are grown-ups, they want to have it all, why not? I am as tall as my father, so why shouldn't I have the same rights as him? This level of high-temprature idiocy is common among most teenagers, but they eventually learn to see their mistakes.

## Growing up in an adult context

After the punk, rock, metal head bangings and the sexually diverse methods of masturbation, teenagers slowly begin to realize the errors in their schools of thought. They start to realize that there is a bigger game at play. After a couple of misbehaviors, they realize that NO ONE CARES. Some of them, like me, begin to question everything, and some specific portion of those begin to realize that there really isn't a right answer to some of the enormous questions. The order for me was something similar to this:

- Society is big and different from my family
- Why do some people do such horrible stuff?
- Why can they get away with it?
- Why isn't someone there to punish them?
- Is there REALLY such a thing as justice?
- What the fuck is this?
- I didn't sign up for this, therefore I don't care.
- I can't not care, god damn it what the hell is the matter with people?
- Is there a god, afterall?
- What do other religions offer?
- Why the hell am I a Muslim/Christian/Jew/...?
- Fuck this, I am an atheist!
- ... LOTS OF ANARCHISM BULLSHIT HERE ...
- Wait, everyone is wrong, could I be wrong as well?
- Oh shit, I don't know anything and nor does anyone else.
- Nothing matters, nihilism is the ultimate satisfaction.
- ... DOING NOTHING FOR QUITE A LONG TIME ...
- It's time to believe in something, something right, something TRUE.
- What are my options? Where do I look?
- ... MORE NIHILISM BECAUSE THE PREVIOUS QUESTION IS HARD TO ANSWER ...

The nihilism section, for me, happened during my last year of college, in which I had literally the worst posssible grades I ever had in my educational life. I began to get out of the house and climb the nearest mountain in my hometown (Abidar). A few months later, I compared that section of my life to Nietzsche, but that was a pretty good egotistic approach to feel good about myself. And it finally happened. Since nothing meant anything, and I had no motivation to do anything as a result, I was consuming a fuck-load of youtube videos where I came upon a lecture in which Jordan Peterson was talking about life (the reason being that I searched for a ton of "meaning of life" videos on youtube, which we all know, is ridiculous). I watched it, and naturally, I responded with "BULLSHIT". Time passed on and I watched something else featuring him, I thought he had some very solid ideas about some stuff (I don't remember what they were). Then I decided to watch his lectures (you know, nihilism results in a ton of time to spare). The first lecture of his "maps of meaning" course hit me hard. He talked about suffering and how that can be the foundation on which we can build our belief system. Previously I had watched a debate featuring him and Sam Harris (which was another celebrity that I followed) so I had some idea of what he talked about. Then it just made sense from that point forward.

Life is all suffering and bitterness. Sure there are a couple of happy moments, but generally, it sucks. We can either do nothing about it (and since nothing matters afterall this is an easy solution that comes to mind), or we can do something. One thing. Just one.

Animals are born, they live so that they can die. We are animal afterall, but through some social contribution system, we seem to be having a fundamental difference. We actually evolve at a faster rate. We have brains that can simulate the possible future ahead of us. We can experience, test and then summarize our findings. Someone else can read what we wrote, and use it to learn faster. Then I looked at the world, and suddenly it didn't look that horrible anymore. I realized that we came from a pure animalistic figure, and now we are discussing the ethics surrounding artificial intelligence. That's freaking amazing. We take the things that work for granted and see only the problems with them.

Now I have a solid definition of growing up. Orient your life (inherently meaning, your efforts) towards contributing something to the world, something that you wish someone had done before and that you had it now. It's like working out, you don't see the results in a month, but having a consistent workout routine will, after a year or two, change your body toward a much healthier one. Positive change is very small, but it's there, believe me it is. It's ok that the world sucks, our minds tend to expect an optimal and ideal one, but if we get hung up on that for too long, we might even make it worse. We don't usually think of it that way, we consume water, food, ... that other people put effort in to produce (or purify in case of water). We owe it to the world to make it a better place, our ancestors did it for us, we should do it for our offsprings as well. We tend to think that we are better than our ancestors and that they should've made a better world for us, but we don't see that we are better BECAUSE they did improve the world. If my parents didn't work hard to afford putting me in English classes I wouldn't be able to learn it. Now I know English and they don't. I shouldn't take that for granted and expect more from them, instead, I should put in double the effort they did (becuase I know more) and make a world in which my child is two times better than me. That way, through mathematical calculations, we can grow exponentially, and that is as amazing as it can be.

So learn as much as you can, be as good as you can possibly be, put in your efforts fully and completely and KNOW that it'll be worth it. You will occasionally meet some devil along your path (in form of someone's act). That just means you have more to accomplish. That just means that there is more work to be done, more to be better at. See the devil as a collective of WRONGdoings and thrive to be the anti-devil, BE THE DAMN TRUTH.
