The concept of god is interesting. We can imagine a pure omnipotent being controlling everything, watching everything, hearing everything, knowing everything, etc. Forget about the greek gods and those bullshit avengers movies, those are just a child's game. This concept of my interest, instead, may best resemble the god of muslims. We can imagine such a being, we are able to conceptualize this being that is the highest possible entity of power.

The Godfather movie, the first one, I love that movie and I just finished watching it. It gave me an interesting idea. The idea that Michael Corleone becomes a god. (SPOILER ALERT for the rest of the article) When his father dies and then he kills all the other hot shot mafias, he becomes a single unit of power that is more powerful than any other. The shot that he is standing in his room and his subordinates kiss his hand beautifully illustrates what I mean.

If you think about it, Michael is a good guy when the movie starts, he says so himself, to his girlfriend at the wedding. He believes that the evil acts of his family have nothing to do with him, then his father is attacked and to defend him, he kills two human beings. That is to defend himself and his family. But then he slowly darkens his list of unethical actions.

This story gave me an idea. You see this pattern repeated over many real-life individuals. They start out good, they have a beautiful goal to acheive, but to acheive that goal, they must get their hands dirty with many unethical tasks. Through this journey of power acheivement, those initially "good people" become "bad guys".

This act of "becoming a god" is a tale worth remembering, that no matter how good you are, or how good your intentions are, there are people who are more powerful than you, simply because they are not afraid to be unethical. In order to become more powerful than those guys, you must defeat them, and you won't gain power with good deeds! you must become a WORSE ONE (in case of Michael, killing them all).

What I'm trying to tell you is that "becoming a god means becoming the devil first".
