---
title: Discrimination
slug: discrimination
date: 2020-08-22
tags: ethics
---

Discrimination is the act of making unjustified distinctions between human beings based on the groups, classes, or other categories to which they are perceived to belong. (says Wikipedia) But first a little back story. My internet connection got fucked up, naturally, I tried to fix it. The problem was a broken ADSL splitter. I went to the biggest electrical store in the town, asked the guy for a new one and he told me that he didn't have one, he offered me a cheap awful alternative, but told me that he didn't have any of the ones that I wanted. As it happened, my father knew the guy, they were kind of friends a long time ago. So he went to him for advice, not mentioning he's my father. The asshole offered him a splitter excatly like the one I needed. So he bought it and got home, and told me the story. I immediately spread my heart out with swear words and phrases. But my folks didn't seem to be understanding where the problem was. Maybe because they don't know what discrimination is and what are it's effects, but also partly because they were on the good end of the story.

## What exactly do we mean by discrimination?

The requirement of being a white-skinned person for a medical study on white people is not discrimination. When we talk about discrimination, we mean assigning value to an unrelated feature of a person, for a specific choosing. When you want an employee, your whole contract with that person is to get the fucking work done. You need a skilled worker and s/he needs a system to shine through. In this situation, then it's wrong to assign value to people's skin color, simply because it has nothing to do with their job performance. Of course it's not as easy as this, but, in a nutshell, that's the issue at hand.

## Why is it bad?

Because of justice (I discuss justice in another entry, you may want to check that out). Once we accept that we want to act justly in the world, then we can easily conclude that people should be treated based on their merits. We should treat EVERYBODY in a just manner.

## Who does it affect?

Most people. Why? Because achievements are mostly distributed unequally. Once you have more friends, you are more likely to have even more. Once you have more wealth, there are better and more efficient ways to increase your wealth. This way, some people get almost the most, whilst most people get almost nothing. That is how the world works. So when you treat people in a discriminative fashion, chances are that weak and fragile ones get the most damage out of this. You end up hurting the weak and helping the strong. For instance, someone with a more important job (hence more paying) ends up having more so called "friends" that think to themselves: "this guy may be beneficial someday, let's treat him nice!". So the woman (unfortunately we males have been treating them horribly) with a less paying job who has three kids in a worse situation who lives in the cheaper neighborhood becomes the likely target to discrimination. Sort of like an anti Robin Hood!

## How can we avoid it?

Better social rules. Once you end up on the good end of the spectrum, you don't realize the horror of the poor and weak. Being late is only bad for others to be, being late for you means more personal time! We stupid homosapiens don't realize that when something is unethical, it's not wrong just when it affects us.
