---
title: How to know
slug: how-to-know
date: 2021-03-18
tags: life, science
---

## How to Know

Knowledge is transferred to the next generations through different mediums. One of which is the written word, others may include sound and video. No matter how the information is conveyed, there reamins a fundamental question to be asked about it, "Is it a fact?".

## What is a fact?

If you look it up quickly on Google, it'll tell you this definition: "a thing that is known or proved to be true." But when you also look up "What is truth?" And if you go in on it deep, you may find that neo-classical theories of truth actually define it by being a direct correspondent to facts. So if we're to go philosophical on this matter, we will need a much more lengthy article! Let's define a fact as something that is real and can be relied upon, something that is the least stupid among its friends!

## No one knows anything

If you ever read any "introduction to philosophy" book, you quickly realize that every single theory of philosophy has its own criticisms and flaws followed by all that it achieves. This may discourage you at first to think of philosophy as a waste of time, but then you may realize that you don't even know these stupid theories yourself, so you are even more stupid! This realization taught me that we shouldn't be so sure, we know almost nothing, and we should always be learning to make up for this lack of knowledge.

## Science

### What is science, really?

Science is the effort of learning through experiments! Pay close attention, I said "effort", meaning that science at a certain point in time, may be wrong. It may be wrong but it tries its best not to be. To this date, there is no better solution to achieve facts. This is the best we've got!

### Scientific papers

Now there isn't a central database of science! Nope. But the collection of all the scientific papers held by different scientific journals and publishers make up science as a whole. A scientific paper is a well-structured document that outlines the efforts made by the scientists through experiments (or calculation or anything else). Scientific papers usually define problems, propose their method of solving the problem, and finally provide detail on the experiments and tests that their solution resulted in. This has several outcomes:

- You know if they've followed the scientific method or not (more on that below)
- You know if they're truthful if you repeat the experiments and achieve the same results
- You can prove that they were wrong if there's some fundamental problem with their method
- You can compare different methods and their results by reading similar papers

Now this means that science is kind of open-source. Anyone can read the papers and there is a little chance that problems are ignored since most experts in that field try to be updated and read papers on occasion. But the beauty of science is that if there's such a problem, others can contact the authors (or the publishers) and hold them accountable for their problems. Or maybe even others can publish their own work showing how they proved some other work wrong! In simple words, science is extremely humble.

### Scientific method

I believe there are people explaining this much more beautifully, for instance: <a href="https://www.sciencebuddies.org/science-fair-projects/science-fair/steps-of-the-scientific-method" target="_blank">Steps of the Scientific Method</a>

## News

But then there's news! You will hear something from a friend, on TV, on Twitter, on YouTube, etc. Should you believe them or not? I can't say for sure, but I can state what I have found to be useful for myself, it might help you as well:

### See if the sources are given

If you're reading an online article, look for links to the original source, for instance, when I read <a href="https://healthline.com" target="_blank">healthline</a>, I always check the links to the actual scientific papers provided. Sometimes, I like to read the conclusion section (on those papers) so that I'm more informed and not just following the author's conclusions of those papers. The same goes for news, if they claim to have a fact, be sure to see where the fact comes from, maybe a paper, maybe some other news source. This way you will know that this isn't just an empty claim!

### Not every thought process is the same

Some methods of reaching conclusions are better than others. Trying to deny the credibility of science by stating the fact that it could be wrong isn't a strong argument. How science works proves that it makes more sense than any other method of reaching a conclusion. Compare this to when someone is trying to prove that the earth is flat because s/he can't see the curve in a matter of kilometers! Some ideas are objectively better than others!

### Don't trust what becomes viral just because it's viral

Being viral is not necessarily good. Just watch the few seconds of <a href="https://youtu.be/YulXp2Vy7lM" target="_blank">this video</a>, Ricky Gervais beautifully puts it, "it's this ridiculous notion of being famous instead of being right". Being famous doesn't mean being right, in fact in most situations, it means the opposite. It makes sense that fake news usually includes some self-respected celebrity being nude, something that doesn't happen for a certain personality makes its occurance more exciting. In summary, don't trust popularity blindly. Assess the situation on its own merits.

### Find good sources of news and rely on those

There's a big difference between Fox news and Vox. Don't believe me, see for yourself! Try to find good sources of news and follow those instead of getting news from every corner of the interent!

### Don't trust websites full of ads

Understand the intention of certain websites. Some are there just to increase their profits. Some social media channels and profiles also do this. They post ads of exactly opposite opinions only if they get their highly dose of ad fees! These are not to be trusted, these are to be blocked :)

### Don't trust your friend who heard something from his friends

Sometimes our stupid human brain figures out a way to tell a lie without being accountable for having told a lie! The credibility of a fact cuts down ten times just by being sourced to someone else. I myself, have told lies to make situations calmer by having used an imaginary friend of mine having told me facts like these! Don't trust your friend's friends.

### Facts are more important than opinions

This is a maxim, really! Your opinion doesn't matter when a fact proves it wrong, no matter how much of a genius you think you are. You are human and can be biased in numerous ways.
