TLDR; To slow down the inevitable disintegration

## The stupid human body

Believe it or not evolution is the best explanation we can come up with. And this inherently means that we are not in our most evolved state that we can be. Our body is far from perfect.

### Bones and their dependency on muscles

Our bones and joints are designed to let us be mobile and keep us moving. This, however doesn't mean they are in perfect shape either. Some have limitations that could've easily been avoided if some intelligent designer would've made us (not trying to start a discussion here). This means that they could easily be used in an ill manner. For example if you get up and your knees are a bit sideways, this could put more pressure on the knee joint and rub it off over time (different parts can come into contact with each other and rub off over time).

You might not realize this because your movements are all automatic throughout your life (except when you do something you haven't done before, in which case you focus on your movements). Now if your muscles are weak, this could lead to problems in your joints and bones and the glue that holds them together (namely ligaments). So the point here is, _make sure your muscles are strong and healthy enough_.

### Muscles and their downward journey

Now you might think (as I used to) that muscles are there for life. Bad news! They gradually decrease in volume, strength and size. Now this is even worse than you think because your body can't reproduce muscles in every age as it does in your twenties. Meaning your muscles are going down baby, and they are not coming back.

Now you can cry about it and say that what's the point if it all goes downhill. But the important part to think about is that if you have more, you are likely to end up with more compared to someone who used to have less. Meaning that the rate of becoming weaker is slower if you have more muscle, simply because you have more, duh!

### Heart: another stupid muscle

This bastard! We tend to want so much from this little guy, even though it's working 24/7, poor little guy :( But the point is that, just like every other muscle in your body, heart gets stronger if there is more heavy duty upon its beautiful shoulders.

How do you put pressure on him? You have to increase your heart beat, by any type of exercise you want (these are called cardiovascular, or cardio for short). It's your duty to put up with the bad feeling of getting tired and heavy breathing so that it can workout! The good news is this gets better overtime and you won't feel as bad as the day you began working out.

### Circulation

Your body (just like water) only works well as long as it moves. The blood that runs through our arteries needs to keep flowing and the rate with which it flows changes with your lifestyle. If you sit still for long periods of time, it hurts your circulation horribly (sitting is bad in way more ways, but this is not the time or place for that).

### Metabolism

The rate with which your body burns fuel to run changes with how much you move, Metabolism is that rate. If you sit still, your body burns less and things happen in a slow manner. If you are active and more around all the time, this causes your body to burn more, and inherently activate other organs more, which itself leads to healthier internals. How exactly this happens requires a medical degree so I'm making sure to be as vague as possible here :D

## The means

So now that we know why we should keep moving, it's time to answer the how question. Not every form of exercise is equally good/bad for you. Extreme sports have a high risk of death, and if your sole purpose is to live longer and healthier, that might not be the wisest choice. But going a bit deeper than this obvious point, there are other factors that need to be considered. But first, let's talk about the fuel.

### Inputs

There's no free energy. Our body needs some fuel to keep running (duh!). And every single human being has some idea of what a healthy diet looks like. Imagine it in your mind, and tell me which of these two are healthier:

- Vegetables, dairy products, water, whole grains, high protein food, etc.
- Fast foods, sugary drinks, cookies and cakes, greasy food, etc.

Unless you have some serious disease that prevents your mind to function well, you know the answer. You can search for this on your own (I recommend [healthline.com](https://healthline.com)), but the general rule of thumb is this:

- Vegetables and fruits are high in fiber but low in calories
- Whole grains, seeds, and nuts have nutrients
- Foods that have high protein help your body rebuild itself
- Avoid sugar, it exists in normal amounts in many of the healthy stuff, you won't need more
- Avoid too much fat, it exists in normal amounts in nuts for instance
- Try to keep foods in their original form found in nature compared to processed foods
- ...

### Exercise

You need two types of exercise to maximize its benefits, cardio and strength training. Now if someone would've told me just this, I would think about bodybuilders and runners individually and doubt the author. But hear me out. You want to keep it in the middle, you don't want to get buffed up, but you also don't want to be thin as paper. The idea is to keep the best of both worlds.

#### Strength training

Strength training helps build muscle (which we know is important according to the preceding paragraphs). Try to include all the major muscle groups, these include but are not limited to:

- Neck, shoulder, arm, forearm
- Chest, back, core, side muscles
- Hip, thigh, calf, foot

Just search for them online, you'll find numerous exercises, just start with the very basics and you can gradually build your knowledge overtime. Then you can search for common mistakes (which lead to injury if done with heavy weights). Then search for "how to do xyz exrecise" you'll find a youtube video for each and every single exercise. Film yourself so you can validate if you have the right form or not. etc.

#### Cardio

Some sort of cardio is required to keep your circulation, metabolism, and heart rate high. You can start by walking (and actually walking like you mean it, not like when you go shopping). And then maybe think about going for a quick run. And the thing about running is that you are not expected to run 8k right off the bat. You start with small goals like 3K and don't run through the whole thing. You start by warming up (fast walking and some stretches), then you run a bit until you are breathing heavily (you'll know when that is when your uncomfortable levels rise), then you walk a bit to catch your breath and once everything is clear, you start running again. You repeat this until you finish your route, again, start with smaller distances and very light running/jogging.
