---
title: How JS wastes your time
slug: how-js-wastes-your-time
date: 2023-02-14
tags: programming, js/ts
---

## What is this?

A series of peculiarities that could actually happen in production codebase but never caught in development. These may not be the most strange of inconsistencies in Javascript, but they are little devils that lurk around your precious time.

## The fallback option

The logical operators `||` and `&&` could be used in more places than just logical expressions. We won't talk about `&&` here, but let's discuss why developers like to use `||` all the time.

You are developing an application that should redirect to an external link. This link should be different based on the environment the app is deployed in. So let's try implementing it:

```typescript
const link = process.env.LINK || "www.google.com";
```

We provide a fallback (google) so that if somehow the environment variable doesn't exist (it's "falsy") the app doesn't behave unexpectedly. This happens a lot, you get used to it and you'll view `||` as the fallback operator. And then in the middle of a hectic feature implementation, you'll do something like this:

```typescript
const prevState; // boolean
const userInput; // boolean
const state = userInput || prevState;
```

You'd expect if there wasn't any user input, you would fall back on the previous state. Well, no. You will get strange behavior, if user sets state to false, the state won't ever be updated. This seriously wasted an hour of my time debugging why the global state in a react app wasn't updated. If you want to read more, see [here](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Nullish_coalescing).

## TODO

function context & setTimeout
