**Fairness and the general idea of justice.** This post is what I have been able to conclude for myself, by no means this is a professional opinion.

**Do we have justice, even at all?** What motivates me to wonder is that if it’s fair, if we are living in a fair system, then why are we being constantly bombarded with all of this injustice? The easiest thing to do is to ask ourselves if we are morally responsible. Then and only then, we can conclude that justice is a concept worth dealing with.

## The nihilistic approach

Since no one can prove there is a god (logically speaking), nor any other form of ultimate goal, then there is really no point, there is nothing worth anything. This is rather easy to conclude and once you accept this, then you are down the rabbit hole. If you take it to the extreme, you won’t even have a reason to take care of yourself and in the worst possible scenario, you will kill yourself. And since even _you_ don’t matter to yourself, how can you justify the idea of morality? You simply can’t. I was indeed in a similar situation and I’m glad that time has passed and I have survived this horrible state of mind.

## The religious answer

A fundamental need for a god is to satisfy the unfairness of the world. A person having a horrible life, can be easily convinced that there is another world with a beardy guy sitting up there ready to give you a bunch of cool stuff. The only thing you need to do is to be a bit more miserable in this finite life and _know_ that you will be rewarded in another infinite life. How you do it? By some daily prayers and having strict dietary considerations one month per year (Islamic version) or going to church, praying, and paying for your sins (Christian version). Of course I’m taking it to the extreme to show how ridiculous it can be, but the point is that it _can_. When you think about religion in the context of a set of rules designed by normal people, it becomes more tolerable. A higher being (religion) forces you to follow the rules (by giving you false hope on something that will never happen) so that when everyone follows the rules, there will be more justice in the world. Thus maximizing the overall happiness of the world! So upon choosing faith, you will have a reason to be morally justifiable, but the motivation is not that great, in my opinion, one can do better.

## The least stupid answer

The best possible answer to the question that we should be morally justifiable (again, in _my_ opinion) is this: "to avoid hell". Hell here doesn’t mean the place full of fire in another world, but rather the collective suffering of all the living things accumulated all in one equation. This way, we can define moral rules as tools to get away from the sufferings of everyone as a whole. This has it’s own problems that need to be addressed, for example, it may lead to utilitarianism, hence having to score different kinds of sufferings in relation to each other and choosing the lowest number (the classic example of changing the train rail to kill one person instead of five). But still, avoiding hell is the best approach one can take. Once you accept avoiding hell, you end up believing in justice as a viable tool. Even if you’re a cynical person, having the same opportunities for everyone is a smart move towards self-care. Hence, justice, hence fairness.

## But take it easy!

It’s not just about acting. The above arguments are some useful ones to consider for when you want to act in the world. But mostly, things happen to you, mostly, you are being acted upon. In these situations, you must get back to the original vague start and realize that there is no absolute answer that guarantees justice. In these situations, you must know that you are being acted upon unfairly, because there isn’t one answer to justify the goddamn thing. Because no one believes in the same values and the world, as a whole, acts in a rather selfish way. Here is where you need to understand that as intellectual as we are, we’re still very naive and stupid. Not everyone even understands ethics, not everyone even has the education to be pointed in some direction towards it. Not everyone is as ethical as you think human beings should be.

And this isn’t a temporary thing, chances are that I won’t ever be in a society that is just and fair. But that’s fine. Through personal discoveries, we find ourselves expecting the world to be fair and that we should be treated with justice in mind. But that’s not how the world works, at least not yet. Hopefully, we move in that direction.

So to sum up, **IT’S AS IF IT’S FAIR.**
