# Vim wow moments

Written on 2023-02-17

These are things in vim that have wowed me, or have been game changers.

## Powerful search & replace

In the most simple form, it's almost like `sed`. Say you have `hi hello` on a line, then you could execute `:s/hi/bye` and it'll change to `bye hello`. That's all good and well, but here is the wow moment: Say you have this function call:

```javascript
funcCall(arg1, arg2);
```

Now you realize you want to swap the two arguments. Sure it's easy to do it if it's in one place only, but suppose you have it in many places like this:

```javascript
funcCall(arg1, arg2);
something();
funcCall(arg1, arg2);
something();
funcCall(arg1, arg2);
```

Then you can line select them all (Shift + v), then execute this:

```regex
:'<,'>s/(\(.*\), \(.*\))/(\2, \1)
```

Meaning, if you put literal paranthesis `\(` and `\)` around the `.*` (which matches any number of any character), then you can use `\1` and `\2` to access them later. This way you can swap things around.

## The holy netrw

My naive enterance into vim introduced me to the NERDTree, a tree-like directory explorer that resembeled what I was familiar with on IDEs. Time went on and I switched over to nvim-tree (in the whole lua over vimscript migrations). But then I realized vim had always had a file explorer built in. So I started configuring it to my liking (via [this great article](https://vonheikemen.github.io/devlog/tools/using-netrw-vim-builtin-file-explorer/)). It's all good and well, until I thought I should figure out what it's short for. I searched around and figured it's NETwork Read & Write .... So I read the manual (:h netrw) and figured I can use it like this:

```bash
nvim scp://user@host/
```

This way, you can get a quick glimpse of the file on the server within vim! (of course you should have your ssh setup for that server already) And then you can open files on your local vim instance (with all the amazing configs you have locally but not on the server!) This is just incredible. There is some serious pain when you ssh into a server, look around with basic tools like `cd` and `ls`, then get to the file and open it with the ancient `vi` which lacks some serious parts of your local amazing neovim. You won't get it if you haven't had that painful experience. In addition, you can view the `/` directory like this:

```bash
nvim scp://user@host//
```

meaning, just add an additional `/`
