# Git tips for working in a team

Written on 2023-04-02

These are some tips that will try to reduce your pain when working with other people in a team.

## Dealing with long-lasting feature branches

Depending on your job, you might get rather bigger features to work on. Those bigger features require more time to code and review and iterate over. For instance, I was given a feature called "dynamic pages" which was meant to add pages that are you know, dynamic! This dynamicism required working with other teams and iterating over the requirements over and over, which means, your development takes longer.

All of this results in something called "long lasting feature branches" (LLFB for short for our purposes), which is a frowned-upon thing that people discourage you from having. The reason being that the longer a feature branch lives, the farther from the master branch it gets. Even if the feature branch stays still, your master branch won't stop being developed. So this results in two versions of the code that look less and less alike over time. Then you finish up your big shiny feature and you want to merge it into master. What happens? Of course CONFLICTS. Resolving those isn't as easy as just picking the new one, you will have a tangled mess of new and old code that you have no idea how to combine.

This sucks, and more often than not, you won't be amazing at resolving it, which leads to bugs and annoyance. So you are discouraged from doing this kind of thing. But are you given a good advice to be able to do your work? Well yes, here is where this long text that was building up gets actually useful. Here is what we will do.

We will try to minimize the diff of our LLFB and our master, how?, Introducing "cherry-pick". Cherry picking is choosing a commit and applying its changes to some other branch. See my amazing diagram below :P

```
feature branch: a -> b -> c -> --------
                     \
master  branch: -----  -> b -> --------
```

Why is this useful? Well if you are a responsible developer, you will try to improve the code you are working with, that involves refactoring some parts that might not be ideal. And so if you end up refactoring something on your LLFB, you should cherry-pick that change (it goes with saying that it should be one commit for one conceptual change) into your other production branches (which may include, dev, staging, master, ...)

This way you will keep your changes to a minimum and your feature branch won't get way too far from production. Sure you will have to do a bit of extra work, but believe me, pushing those changes (and possible conflicts) forwards is a favor you will be thankful for later.
